RHDEVDOCS 6060 Release Notes for Pipelines 1.15 (#77469)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-release-notes-1-15.adoc

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// * about/op-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="op-release-notes-1-15_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} General Availability 1.15

With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.15 is available on {OCP} 4.14 and later versions.

[id="new-features-1-15_{context}"]
== New features

In addition to fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.15:

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

* With this update, several tasks are added to the `openshift-pipelines` cluster in the `resolverTasks` addon. You can incorporate these tasks in your pipelines using the cluster resolver. Most of these tasks were previously available as cluster tasks (`ClusterTask` resources). You can access the following tasks using the cluster resolver:
** `kn`
** `kn-apply`
** `openshift-client`
** `tkn`
** `maven`
** `git-cli`
** `git-clone`
** `skopeo-copy`
** `buildah`
** `s2i-go`
** `s2i-dotnet`
** `s2i-nodejs`
** `s2i-perl`
** `s2i-php`
** `s2i-python`
** `s2i-ruby`

> ** `s2i-java`

Reviewer: This should go under Operator section

----

* With this update, if you use a `serviceType` value of `LoadBalancer` in an `EventListener` CR, you can optionally specify a load balancer class in the `serviceLoadBalancerClass` field. If your cluster provides multiple load balancer controllers, you can use the load balancer class to select one of these controller. For more information about setting a load balancer class, see the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#load-balancer-class[Kubernetes documentation].
+
.Example of specifying a LoadBalancerClass setting
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: triggers.tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: EventListener
metadata:
  name: listener-loadbalancerclass
spec:
  serviceAccountName: tekton-triggers-example-sa
  triggers:
    - name: foo-trig
      bindings:
        - ref: pipeline-binding
        - ref: message-binding
      template:
        ref: pipeline-template
  resources:
    kubernetesResource:
      serviceType: LoadBalancer
      serviceLoadBalancerClass: private
----

[id="manual-approval-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== Manual approval

With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the new Manual Approval Gate functionality.

> Manual Approval Gate is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) controller. You can use this controller to add manual approval points in the pipeline so that the pipeline waits at that point and waits for a manual approval before continuing execution. To use this feature, specify an `ApprovalTask` in the pipeline, in a similar way to specifying a `Task`. Users can provide the approval using the web console or using the `tkn` or `opc` command line utility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manual Approval Gate is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) controller. You can use this controller to add manual approval points in the pipeline so that the pipeline waits at that point and waits for a manual approval before continuing execution. To use this feature, specify an `ApprovalTask` in the pipeline, in a similar way to specifying a `Task`. Users can provide the approval using the web console or using the  `opc` command line utility.
```

The Manual Approval Gate controller includes the following features:

* You must set the following parameters in the `ApprovalTask` specification:
** `approvers`: The users who can approve or reject the `approvalTask` to unblock the pipeline
** `numberOfApprovalsRequired`: The number of approvals required to unblock the pipeline

> ** `description`: Description of the `approvalTask` that {pipelines-shortname} displays to the users

Reviewer 2: Can we add one line here as
`This is an optional param`

> * Support for approval from multiple users:

Reviewer 3: This is an incomplete sentence

> ** The approval requires the configured minimum number of approvals front he configured users. Until this number is reached, the approval task does not finish and its `approvalState` value remains `pending`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** The approval requires the configured minimum number of approvals from the configured users. Until this number is reached, the approval task does not finish and its `approvalState` value remains `pending`.
```

> ** If any one approver rejects the approval, the task controller changes the `approvalState` of the task to `rejected` and the pipeline run fails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** If any one approver rejects the approval, the Approvaltask controller changes the `approvalState` of the task to `rejected` and the pipeline run fails.
```

** If one user approves the task but the configured number of approvals is still not reached, the same user can change to rejecting the task and the pipeline run fails.

> * Users can provide approval using the `tkn-approvaltask` CLI and the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Users can provide approval using the `opc approvaltask` CLI and the OpenShift web console.
```

> * Users can add messages while approving or rejecting the `approvalTask`. {pipelines-shortname} records these messages in the YAML manifest of the `pipelineRun` CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Users can add messages while approving or rejecting the `approvalTask`. 
```

This much is sufficient

* You can add a timeout setting to the `approvalTask` specification. If the required number of approvals is not provided during this time period, the pipeline run fails.

[id="cli-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== CLI

* With this update, the `tkn` command line utility supports the `-E` or `--exit-with-pipelinerun-error` option for the `pipeline showlog` command. With this option, the command line utility returns an error code of `0` if the pipeline run completed successfully, `1` if the pipeline run ended with an error, and `2` if the status of the pipeline run is unknown.

* With this update, the `tkn` command line utility supports the `--label` option for the `bundle push` command. With this option, you can provide the value of a label in the `<label-name>=<value>` format; the utility adds the label to the OCI image that it creates. You can use this option several times to provide several labels for the same image.

[id="pac-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== {pac}

> * With this update, when using {pac}, you can set a `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-comment` annotation on a pipeline run to start the pipeline run when a developer adds a matching comment to a pull request. This setting is supported only for pull requests and only for GitHub and GitLab repository providers.

Reviewer: Based on https://pipelinesascode.com/docs/guide/authoringprs/#matching-a-pipelinerun-on-a-regexp-in-a-comment its a tech preview

```suggestion
* With this update, when using {pac}, you can set a `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-comment` annotation on a pipeline run to start the pipeline run when a developer adds a matching comment to a pull request. This setting is supported only for pull requests and only for GitHub and GitLab repository providers. This feature is Technological preview only.
```
cc @chmouel

* With this update, when using {pac}, you can enter the `/test <pipeline_run_name>` comment on a pull request to start any {pac} pipeline run on the repository, whether or not it was triggered by an event for this pipeline run. This feature is Technological preview only.

* With this update, when providing a `/test` or `/retest` command for {pac} in a Git request comment, you can now set any standard or custom parameters for the pipeline run.
+
.Example commands in a Git request comment
----
/test pipelinerun1 revision=main param1="value1" param2="value \"value2\" with quotes"
----
+
This command runs the `pipelinerun1` pipeline run on the `main` branch instead of the pull request branch.
+
----
/test checker target_branch=backport-branch
----
+
This command runs the `checker` pipeline run on a backport (cherry-pick) of the pull request to the `backport-branch` branch.

> * With this update, when using {pac}, you can create a `Repository` CR with the name `pipelines-as-code` in the namespace in which {pipelines-shortname} is installed, normally `openshift-pipelines`. In this CR you can set the configuration options that apply to all Repository CRs. You can override any of these default options by setting different values in the `Repository` CR for a particular repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, when using {pac}, you can create a `Repository` CR with the name `pipelines-as-code` in the namespace in which {pipelines-shortname} is installed, normally `openshift-pipelines`. In this CR, you can set the configuration options that apply to all `Repository` CRs. You can override any of these default options by setting different values in the `Repository` CR for a particular repository.
```

> * With this update, {pac} processes both the `OWNERS` file and the `OWNERS_ALIASES` file when determining which users can trigger pipeline runs. However, If the `OWNERS` file includes a `filters` section, {pac} matches approvers and reviewers only against the `.*` filter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, {pac} processes both the `OWNERS` file and the `OWNERS_ALIASES` file when determining which users can trigger pipeline runs. However, if the `OWNERS` file includes a `filters` section, {pac} matches approvers and reviewers only against the `.*` filter.
```

> * With this update, when {pac} generates a random secret name for storing the GitHub temporary token, it uses two more random characters. This change decreases the probability of a collision in secret names.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, when {pac} generates a random secret name for storing the GitHub temporary token, it uses two additional random characters. This change decreases the probability of a collision in secret names.
```

> * With this update, when a pipeline run defined using {pac} causes a YAML validation error, {pipelines-shortname} reports the error and the pipeline run name in the event log of the user namespace where the pipeline run executes, as well as in the {pipelines-shortname} controller log. The error report is also dispyated in the Git repository provider, for example, in the GiThub CheckRun user interfac  With this change, a user who does not have access to the controller namespace can access the error messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, when a pipeline run defined by using {pac} causes a YAML validation error, {pipelines-shortname} reports the error and the pipeline run name in the event log of the user namespace where the pipeline run executes, as well as in the {pipelines-shortname} controller log. The error report is also dispyated in the Git repository provider, for example, in the Github CheckRun user interface.  With this change, a user who does not have access to the controller namespace can access the error messages.
```

[id="tekton-chains-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== {tekton-chains}

* With this update, a Konflux developer can monitor the worker queue and watcher latency for the {pipelines-shortname} Chains controller using the Pipelines service dashboard in Grafana.

[id="tekton-results-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== {tekton-results}

> * {tekton-results} uses an `UpdateLog` operation to store logging information in the database. With this update, you can use the TektonResult CR to specify a timeout value for this operation. If the operation does not complete within the specified time period, {tekton-results} aborts the operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* {tekton-results} uses an `UpdateLog` operation to store logging information in the database. With this update, you can use the `TektonResult` CR to specify a timeout value for this operation. If the operation does not complete within the specified time period, {tekton-results} ends the operation.
```
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#a

| `logs_type` | `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config.LOGS_TYPE`
| `logs_buffer_size` | `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config.LOGS_BUFFER_SIZE`
| `auth_disable` | `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config.AUTH_DISABLE`
| `db_enable_auto_migration` | `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config.DB_ENABLE_AUTO_MIGRATION`
| `server_port` | `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config.SERVER_PORT`
| `prometheus_port` | `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config.PROMETHEUS_PORT`
| `gcs_bucket_name` | `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config.GCS_BUCKET_NAME`

|===
+
For the configuration parameters not listed in this table, use the regular specs as described in the documentation.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Use the alternate parameter specs only if you need to use the additional settings in the `options.configMaps.tekton-results-api-config.data.config` section of the `TektonResult` CR.
====

* With this update, you can use the {tekton-results} API to retrieve the Go profiling data for {tekton-results}.

> * Before this update, {tekton-results} checked the user authentication when displaying every fragment of log data. With this update, {tekton-results} checked the user authentication only once per log data request. This change improves the response time for the {tekton-results} log API, which is used for displaying logs using the command line utility.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, {tekton-results} checked the user authentication when displaying every fragment of log data. With this update, {tekton-results} checks the user authentication only once per log data request. This change improves the response time for the {tekton-results} log API, which is used for displaying logs using the command line utility.
```

[id="breaking-changes-1-15_{context}"]

> == Breaking changes

Reviewer: Similar to Breaking changes shall we add Deprecation Notice for ClusterTask as they are deprecated :thinking:

> * Before this update, you could specify the `git-provider`, `sender`, and `branch` labels in a {pac} pipeline run YAML file. With this update, {pac} no longer supports these labels, Instead, you can specify `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/git-provider`, `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/sender`, and `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/branch` as annotations.

Reviewer: PAC use to set those labels and end user use to rely on those labels 

```suggestion
* Before this update, {pac} used to specify the `git-provider`, `sender`, and `branch` labels in a {pac} pipeline run YAML file. With this update, {pac} no longer supports these labels, Instead, {pac} now specify `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/git-provider`, `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/sender`, and `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/branch` as annotations.
```
How about this ??

Author: I'm really not sure what is going on here - are you saying this is somethingpurely internal to PAC, not something the user could set?

Author: fixed as best I can, though. Removed "YAML file" as PAC clearly does not edit files in Git?

Reviewer: LGTM

* With this update, you can no longer use the `jaeger` exporter for OpenTelemetry tracing. You can use the `oltptraceexporter` for tracing.

[id="fixed-issues-1-15_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

> * Before this update, many info messages about `ClusterTask` resources being repeatedly reconciled were present in the {pipelines-shortname} operator log. With this update, the excessive reconciliation no longer happens and the excessive messages don’t appear.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, many info messages about `ClusterTask` resources being repeatedly reconciled were present in the {pipelines-shortname} Operator log. With this update, excessive reconciliation no longer happens and excessive messages do not appear.
```

+

> If the reconciliation messages still appear, remove the old version of the ClusterTask `installerset` resource. However, if you remove the `installerset` resource, you cannot reference ClusterTasks with this specified version in your pipelines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the reconciliation messages still appear, remove the old version of the ClusterTask `installerset` resource. However, if you remove the `installerset` resource, you cannot reference `ClusterTasks` with this specified version in your pipelines.
```

+
Enter the following command to list `installerset` resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get tektoninstallersets
----
+
The names for versioned `ClusterTask` `installerset` resources are `addon-versioned-clustertasks-<version>-<unique_id>` , for example, `addon-versioned-clustertasks-1.12-fblb8`.
+
Enter the following command to remove an installerset:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc delete tektoninstallerset <installerset-name>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc delete tektoninstallerset <installerset-name>
```

----

> * Before this update, if a task run or pipeline run referenced a service account and this service account referenced a secret that did not exist, the task run or pipeline run failed. With this update, the task run or pipeline run logs a warning and continues its execution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if a task run or pipeline run referenced a service account and this service account referenced a secret that did not exist, the task run or pipeline run failed. With this update, the task run or pipeline run logs a warning and continues.
```
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#e

* Before this update, when you referenced a `StepAction` CR inside a step of a task, {pipelines-shortname} passed all parameters of the step to the `StepAction` CR. With this update, {pipelines-shortname} passes only the parameters defined in the `StepAction` CR to the step action.

* Before this update, if you defined a parameter of a task within a pipeline twice, {pipelines-shortname} logged the wrong path to the definition in the error message. With this update, the error message contains the correct path.

> * Before this update, if you specified a task under the `finally:` clause of a pipeline, used an expression in the `when:` clause of this task, and referenced the status of another task in this expression (for example,  `'$(tasks.a-task. status)' == 'Succeeded'`), this expression was not evaluated correctly. With this update, the expression is evaluated correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if you specified a task under the `finally:` clause of a pipeline, used an expression in the `when:` clause of this task, and referenced the status of another task in this expression (for example, `'$(tasks.a-task. status)' == 'Succeeded'`), this expression was not evaluated correctly. With this update, the expression is evaluated correctly.
```

* Before this update, if you specified a negative number of retries when specifying a task run, {pipelines-shortname} did not detect the error. With this update, {pipelines-shortname} detects and reports this error.

> * Before this update, when you use a `pipelineRef:` section inside a task of a pipeline to reference another pipeline or when you use a `pipelineSpec:` section inside a task of a pipeline to specify another pipeline, the {pipelines-shortname} controller could crash. With this update, the crash does not happen and the correct error message is logged. Use of `pipelineRef:` and `pipelineSpec:` sections inside a pipeline is not supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when you use a `pipelineRef:` section inside of a task of a pipeline to reference another pipeline or when you use a `pipelineSpec:` section inside of a task of a pipeline to specify another pipeline, the {pipelines-shortname} controller could crash. With this update, the crash does not happen and the correct error message is logged. Use of `pipelineRef:` and `pipelineSpec:` sections inside a pipeline is not supported.
```

* Before this update, if a pipeline run timed out and a `TaskRun` or `CustomRun` resource that this pipeline run included was deleted, the pipeline run execution was blocked and never completed. With this update, the execution correctly ends, logging a canceled state.

* Before this update, when using a resolver to incorporate a task from a remote source, the resolver automatically added the `kind` value of `Task` to the resulting  specification. With this update, the resolver does not add a `kind` value to the specification.

* Before this update, when you set configuration options using an `options:` section in the `TektonConfig` CR, these options were sometimes not applied correctly. With this update, the options are applied correctly.

* Before this update, if you set the `enable-api-fields` field and certain other fields in the `TektonConfig` CR, the settings were lost after any update of {pipelines-shortname}. With this update, the settings are preserved during updates.

> * Before this update, if you configured the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) using the options section in the `TektonConfig` CR, any existing HPA was updated correctly but a new HPA was not created when required. With this update, Horizontal Pod Autoscaler configuration using the options section works correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if you configured the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) using the options section in the `TektonConfig` CR, any existing HPA was updated correctly but a new HPA was not created when required. With this update, HPA configuration using the options section works correctly.
```

* Before this update, you could erroneously change the `targetNamespace` field in the `TektonConfig` CR, creating an unsupported configuration. With this update, you can no longer change this field. Changing the target namespace name from `openshift-pipelines` is not supported.

> 

Reviewer 3: remove blank line

> * Before this update, if the `pipelines-scc-rolebinding` rolebinding was missing or deleted in any namespace, the {pipelines-shortname} operator controller would fail to create default resources in new namespaces correctly. With this update, the controller functions correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if the `pipelines-scc-rolebinding` rolebinding was missing or deleted in any namespace, the {pipelines-shortname} Operator controller would fail to create default resources in new namespaces correctly. With this update, the controller functions correctly.
```

* Before this update, when you specified a `namespaceSelector` value when defining a `triggerGroup` in an `EventListener` CR, the event listener was unable to access triggers in the specified namespace if it was not the same as the namespace of the event listener. With this update, the event listener can access triggers in the specified namespace.

* Before this update, when a request was sent to an `EventListener` route URL with a `Content-Type` header, this header was not passed to the interceptor. With this update, the header is passed to the interceptor.

* With this update, several potential causes for {tekton-results} becoming unresponsive, crashing, or consuming a large amount of memory were removed.

> * Before this update, in the Pipeline details page of the web console, if a `when` expression using CEL was configured for a task, information was not displayed correctly. With this update the information is displayed correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, in the Pipeline details page of the web console, if a `when` expression using CEL was configured for a task, information was not displayed correctly. With this update, the information is displayed correctly.
```

* Before this update, in the Pipeline details page of the web console, the menu was not visible when you enabled dark mode in the web console. With this update, the menu is visible.

* Before this update, in the Pipelines page of the web console, information about running statistics of pipelines did not include the information saved in {tekton-results}. With this update, the page includes all available running statistics information for every pipeline.

* Before this update, when you viewed a list of tasks for a namespace in the web console, a task from another namespace was sometimes displayed in the list. With this update, the web console correctly list tasks for each namespace.

* Before this update, when you viewed the list of task runs in the web console, the status for each task run was not displayed. With this update, the list of task runs in the web console includes the status for each task run.

> * Before this update, if you disabled cluster tasks in your {pipelines-shortname} deployment, the Pipeline Builder in the web console did not work. With this update, if you disabled cluster tasks, the Pipeline Builder in the web console works correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if you disabled cluster tasks in your {pipelines-shortname} deployment, the Pipeline Builder in the web console did not work. With this update, if you disable cluster tasks, the Pipeline Builder in the web console works correctly.
```

* Before this update, the {pipelines-shortname} console plugin pod did not move to the node specified using the `nodeSelector`, `tolerations`, and `priorityClassName` settings. With this update, the {pipelines-shortname} plugin pod moves to the correct node.

> * Before this update, the {pac} watcher sometimes crashed when processing a pipeline run for which a concurrency limit was not set. With this update, such pipeline runs are processed correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the {pac} watcher sometimes crashed when processing a pipeline run for which a concurrency limit was not set. With this update, these pipeline runs are processed correctly.
```

** `Error`: There was an error during execution of the step, for example a command returned a non-zero exit code, and this error caused the step to fail. See the log output for the details of the error.
** `TimeoutExceeded`: The execution of the step timed out. See the log output for the details of the timeout.
** `Skipped`: The step was skipped because a previous step failed.
** `TaskRunCancelled`: The task run was cancelled.

* With this update, you can use the `pipeline.disable-inline-spec` spec in the `TektonConfig` CR to disable specifying pipelines and tasks inside `PipelineRun` CRs, specifying tasks inside `Pipeline` CRs, or specifying tasks inside `TaskRun` CRs. If you use this option, you must refer to pipelines by using the `pipelineRef:` specification and refer to tasks by using the `taskRef:` specification.

* With this update, some metrics for Prometheus monitoring of {pipelines-shortname} were renamed to ensure compliance with the Prometheus naming convention. Gauge and Counter metric names no longer end with `count`.

[id="Operator-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== Operator

> * With this update, several tasks are added to the `openshift-pipelines` cluster in the `resolverTasks` add-on. You can incorporate these tasks in your pipelines using the cluster resolver. Most of these tasks were previously available as cluster tasks (`ClusterTask` resources). You can access the following tasks by using the cluster resolver:

Reviewer 4: It should be Openshift pipelines namespace.

        ref: simple-template
  resources:
    kubernetesResource:
      serviceType: NodePort
      servicePort: 38080
----

* With this update, if you use a `serviceType` value of `LoadBalancer` in an `EventListener` CR, you can optionally specify a load balancer class in the `serviceLoadBalancerClass` field. If your cluster provides multiple load balancer controllers, you can use the load balancer class to select one of these controllers. For more information about setting a load balancer class, see the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#load-balancer-class[Kubernetes documentation].
+
.Example specifying a LoadBalancerClass setting
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: triggers.tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: EventListener
metadata:
  name: listener-loadbalancerclass
spec:
  serviceAccountName: tekton-triggers-example-sa
  triggers:
    - name: example-trig
      bindings:
        - ref: pipeline-binding
        - ref: message-binding
      template:
        ref: pipeline-template
  resources:
    kubernetesResource:
      serviceType: LoadBalancer
      serviceLoadBalancerClass: private
----

[id="manual-approval-new-features-1-15_{context}"]

> === Manual approval

Author: In progress, to be published this week or early next. It was affected by late availability of the information and by the unusually large size of the Release Notes.

----

* With this update, if you use a `serviceType` value of `LoadBalancer` in an `EventListener` CR, you can optionally specify a load balancer class in the `serviceLoadBalancerClass` field. If your cluster provides multiple load balancer controllers, you can use the load balancer class to select one of these controllers. For more information about setting a load balancer class, see the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#load-balancer-class[Kubernetes documentation].
+
.Example specifying a LoadBalancerClass setting
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: triggers.tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: EventListener
metadata:
  name: listener-loadbalancerclass
spec:
  serviceAccountName: tekton-triggers-example-sa
  triggers:
    - name: example-trig
      bindings:
        - ref: pipeline-binding
        - ref: message-binding
      template:
        ref: pipeline-template
  resources:
    kubernetesResource:
      serviceType: LoadBalancer
      serviceLoadBalancerClass: private
----

[id="manual-approval-new-features-1-15_{context}"]
=== Manual approval

With this update, {pipelines-shortname} includes the new Manual Approval Gate functionality.

> Manual Approval Gate is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) controller. You can use this controller to add manual approval points in the pipeline so that the pipeline stops at that point and waits for a manual approval before continuing execution. To use this feature, specify an `ApprovalTask` in the pipeline, in a similar way to specifying a `Task`. Users can provide the approval by using the web console or by using the `opc` command line utility.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Manual Approval Gate is a custom resource definition (CRD) controller. You can use this controller to add manual approval points in the pipeline so that the pipeline stops at that point and waits for a manual approval before continuing execution. To use this feature, specify an `ApprovalTask` in the pipeline, in a similar way to specifying a `Task`. Users can provide the approval by using the web console or by using the `opc` command line utility.
```

* With this update, when providing a `/test` or `/retest` command for {pac} in a Git request comment, you can now set any standard or custom parameters for the pipeline run.
+
.Example commands in a Git request comment
----
/test pipelinerun1 revision=main param1="value1" param2="value \"value2\" with quotes"
----
+
This command runs the `pipelinerun1` pipeline run on the `main` branch instead of the pull request branch.
+
----
/test checker target_branch=backport-branch
----
+
This command runs the `checker` pipeline run on a backport (cherry-pick) of the pull request to the `backport-branch` branch.

* With this update, when using {pac}, you can create a global `Repository` CR with the name `pipelines-as-code` in the namespace in which {pipelines-shortname} is installed, normally `openshift-pipelines`. In this CR, you can set the configuration options that apply to all `Repository` CRs. You can override any of these default options by setting different values in the `Repository` CR for a particular repository.

> +
> :FeatureName: The global `Repository` CR
> include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

Reviewer 5: `{FeatureName}` is coming through verbatim here in the preview. You can fix this by either wrapping in open block (if you want to keep it attached to the bullet's indentation):
```suggestion
+
--
:FeatureName: The global `Repository` CR
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
--
```
or detach it:
```suggestion

:FeatureName: The global `Repository` CR
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

* The new `git-clone` task, which is available from the `openshift-pipelines` namespace by using the cluster resolver, does not set the `COMMIT` result value. The issue does not apply to the `git-clone` `ClusterTask`.

* The `jib-maven` `ClusterTask` does not work if you are using {OCP} version 4.16.

* When using {pac}, if you set the `concurrency_limit` spec in the global `Repository` CR named `pipelines-as-code` in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, which provides default settings for all `Repository` CRs, the {pac} watcher crashes. As a workaround, do not set this spec in this CR. Instead, set the `concurrency_limit` spec in the other `Repository` CRs that you create.

* When using {pac}, if you set the `settings.pipelinerun_provenance` spec in the global `Repository` CR named `pipelines-as-code` in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, which provides default settings for all `Repository` CRs, the {pac} controller crashes. As a workaround, do not set this spec in this CR. Instead, set the `settings.pipelinerun_provenance` spec in the other `Repository` CRs that you create.

[id="fixed-issues-1-15_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

> * Before this update, many info messages about `ClusterTask` resources being repeatedly reconciled were present in the {pipelines-shortname} Operator log. With this update, the excessive reconciliation no longer happens and the excessive messages do not appear.

Reviewer 5: Per ISG (unless they were explicitly called like `INFO` in the system or something, I suppose):
```suggestion
* Before this update, many information messages about `ClusterTask` resources being repeatedly reconciled were present in the {pipelines-shortname} Operator log. With this update, the excessive reconciliation no longer happens and the excessive messages do not appear.
```

Author: They are indeed "info" as a log level, I'll monospace that.

+

> If the reconciliation messages still appear, remove the old version of the ClusterTask `installerset` resource. However, if you remove the `installerset` resource, you cannot reference `ClusterTasks` with this specified version in your pipelines.

Reviewer 5: * "earlier" per ISG
* Still need to mark up `ClusterTask`, but a suggestion for a minor rewrite to avoid two backtick'd words being back-to-back
```suggestion
If the reconciliation messages still appear, remove the earlier version of the `ClusterTask` resource named `installerset`. However, if you remove the `installerset` resource, you cannot reference `ClusterTasks` with this specified version in your pipelines.
```

Author: Unfortunately this is not a `ClusterTask` resource named `installerset`. It is an `installerset` resource that installs `ClusterTask` resources . I guess two backticks following each other aren't critical.

+
Enter the following command to list `installerset` resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get tektoninstallersets
----
+

> The names for versioned `ClusterTask` `installerset` resources are `addon-versioned-clustertasks-<version>-<unique_id>` , for example, `addon-versioned-clustertasks-1.12-fblb8`.

Reviewer 5: Well, looks like there's some back-to-back backticks here, not a big deal or an actual guideline anywhere, I don't think. Up to you!

> The names for versioned `ClusterTask` `installerset` resources are `addon-versioned-clustertasks-<version>-<unique_id>` , for example, `addon-versioned-clustertasks-1.12-fblb8`.

Reviewer 5: Extra space:
```suggestion
The names for versioned `ClusterTask` `installerset` resources are `addon-versioned-clustertasks-<version>-<unique_id>`, for example, `addon-versioned-clustertasks-1.12-fblb8`.
```

+

> Enter the following command to remove an installerset:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Enter the following command to remove an `installerset`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc delete tektoninstallerset <installerset-name>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
$ oc delete tektoninstallerset <installerset_name>
```

* Before this update, if a YAML manifest that a pipeline run uses (for example, the manifest of a task or pipeline) had syntax errors, the logged error message was unspecific or no error message was logged. With this update, the logged error message includes the syntax errors.

* Before this update, when you used the `buildah` cluster task with a secret with the `.dockerconfigjson` file provided using a workspace, the task failed during the `cp` command because the `/root/.docker` directory did not exist. With this update, the task completes successfully.

* Before this update, if a pipeline run timed out and a `TaskRun` or `CustomRun` resource that this pipeline run included was deleted, the pipeline run execution was blocked and never completed. With this update, the execution correctly ends, logging a canceled state.

> * Before this update, when using a resolver to incorporate a task from a remote source, the resolver automatically added the `kind` value of `Task` to the resulting  specification. With this update, the resolver does not add a `kind` value to the specification.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when using a resolver to incorporate a task from a remote source, the resolver automatically added the `kind` value of `Task` to the resulting specification. With this update, the resolver does not add a `kind` value to the specification.
```

* Before this update, when you set configuration options using an `options:` section in the `TektonConfig` CR, these options were sometimes not applied correctly. With this update, the options are applied correctly.

* Before this update, if you set the `enable-api-fields` field and certain other fields in the `TektonConfig` CR, the settings were lost after any update of {pipelines-shortname}. With this update, the settings are preserved during updates.

> * Before this update, if you configured the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) using the options section in the `TektonConfig` CR, any existing HPA was updated correctly but a new HPA was not created when required. With this update, HPA configuration using the options section works correctly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if you configured the horizontal pod autoscaler (HPA) using the options section in the `TektonConfig` CR, any existing HPA was updated correctly but a new HPA was not created when required. With this update, HPA configuration using the options section works correctly.
```

* Before this update, when you specified a `namespaceSelector` value when defining a `triggerGroup` in an `EventListener` CR, the event listener was unable to access triggers in the specified namespace if it was not the same as the namespace of the event listener. With this update, the event listener can access triggers in the specified namespace.

* Before this update, when a request was sent to an `EventListener` route URL with a `Content-Type` header, this header was not passed to the interceptor. With this update, the header is passed to the interceptor.

* With this update, several potential causes for {tekton-results} becoming unresponsive, crashing, or consuming a large amount of memory were removed.

* Before this update, in the Pipeline details page of the web console, if a `when` expression using CEL was configured for a task, information was not displayed correctly. With this update, the information is displayed correctly.

* Before this update, in the Pipeline details page of the web console, the menu was not visible when you enabled dark mode in the web console. With this update, the menu is visible.

> * Before this update, in the Pipelines page of the web console, information about running statistics of pipelines did not include the information saved in {tekton-results}. With this update, the page includes all available running statistics information for every pipeline.

Reviewer 5: Markup the name of the page with asterisks, e.g.:
```
in the *Pipeline* details page
```
Also note the the first two say "Pipeline", but the third one says "Pipelines".

Author: marked up, thanks. And the third one is a different page.

* Before this update, if you disabled cluster tasks in your {pipelines-shortname} deployment, the Pipeline Builder in the web console did not work. With this update, if you disable cluster tasks, the Pipeline Builder in the web console works correctly.

* Before this update, the {pipelines-shortname} console plugin pod did not move to the node specified using the `nodeSelector`, `tolerations`, and `priorityClassName` settings. With this update, the {pipelines-shortname} plugin pod moves to the correct node.

* Before this update, the {pac} watcher sometimes crashed when processing a pipeline run for which a concurrency limit was not set. With this update, these pipeline runs are processed correctly.

* Before this update, in {pac}, a concurrency limit setting of `0` was not interpreted as disabling the concurrency limit. With this update, a concurrency limit setting of `0` disables the concurrency limit.

* Before this update, when you defined annotations and labels for a task in {pac}, the annotations and labels were not set on the pod that is running the task. With this update, {pac} correctly sets the configured annotations and labels on the pod that is running the task.

> * Before this update, {pac} sometimes caused a load on the Kubernetes service by re-reading an internal configuration `ConfigMap` frequently. With this update, {pac} no longer causes this load, because it reloads the `ConfigMap` only after the `ConfigMap` is modified.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Before this update, {pac} sometimes caused a load on the Kubernetes service by re-reading an internal configuration `ConfigMap` resource frequently. With this update, {pac} no longer causes this load, because it reloads the `ConfigMap` only after the `ConfigMap` is modified.
```

> * Before this update, when using {pac}, when you deleted a comment on a pull request such as `/test` or `/retest`, {pac} executed the command in the comment again. With this update,  {pac} executes a command only when you add the comment.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when using {pac}, when you deleted a comment on a pull request such as `/test` or `/retest`, {pac} executed the command in the comment again. With this update, {pac} executes a command only when you add the comment.
```

The Manual Approval Gate controller includes the following features:

* You must set the following parameters in the `ApprovalTask` specification:
** `approvers`: The users who can approve or reject the `approvalTask` to unblock the pipeline
** `numberOfApprovalsRequired`: The number of approvals required to unblock the pipeline
** `description`: (Optional) Description of the `approvalTask` that {pipelines-shortname} displays to the users
* The manual approval gate supports approval from multiple users:
** The approval requires the configured minimum number of approvals from the configured users. Until this number is reached, the approval task does not finish and its `approvalState` value remains `pending`.
** If any one approver rejects the approval, the `ApprovalTask` controller changes the `approvalState` of the task to `rejected` and the pipeline run fails.
** If one user approves the task but the configured number of approvals is still not reached, the same user can change to rejecting the task and the pipeline run fails.

> * Users can provide approval using the `opc approvaltask` CLI and the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer 6: Yes, the Approval gate feature is implemented in dynamic console plugin only, and the dynamic console plugin is supported in OCP 4.15 and above.

> * Users can provide approval using the `opc approvaltask` CLI and the OpenShift web console.

Author: So no dynamic plugin in 4.14, gotcha.

----
+
This command runs the `pipelinerun1` pipeline run on the `main` branch instead of the pull request branch.
+
----
/test checker target_branch=backport-branch
----
+
This command runs the `checker` pipeline run on a backport (cherry-pick) of the pull request to the `backport-branch` branch.

* With this update, when using {pac}, you can create a `Repository` CR with the name `pipelines-as-code` in the namespace in which {pipelines-shortname} is installed, normally `openshift-pipelines`. In this CR, you can set the configuration options that apply to all `Repository` CRs. You can override any of these default options by setting different values in the `Repository` CR for a particular repository.

* With this update, {pac} processes both the `OWNERS` file and the `OWNERS_ALIASES` file when determining which users can trigger pipeline runs. However, if the `OWNERS` file includes a `filters` section, {pac} matches approvers and reviewers only against the `.*` filter.

* With this update, when {pac} generates a random secret name for storing the GitHub temporary token, it uses two additional random characters. This change decreases the probability of a collision in secret names.

> * With this update, when a pipeline run defined by using {pac} causes a YAML validation error, {pipelines-shortname} reports the error and the pipeline run name in the event log of the user namespace where the pipeline run executes, as well as in the {pipelines-shortname} controller log. The error report is also dispyated in the Git repository provider, for example, in the GitHub CheckRun user interface. With this change, a user who does not have access to the controller namespace can access the error messages.

Reviewer 7: typo `dispyated`

* With this update, you can no longer use the `jaeger` exporter for OpenTelemetry tracing. You can use the `oltptraceexporter` for tracing.

[id="known-issues-1-15_{context}"]
== Known issues

* The new `skopeo-copy` task, which is available from the `openshift-pipelines` namespace by using the cluster resolver, does not work when the `VERBOSE` parameter is set to `false`, which is the default setting. As a workaround, when you use this task, set the `VERBOSE` parameter to `true`. The issue does not apply to the `skopeo-copy` `ClusterTask`.

* The new `skopeo-copy` task, which is available from the `openshift-pipelines` namespace by using the cluster resolver, fails when you use it to push or pull an image to or from an {OCP} internal image repository, such as `image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000`. As a workaround, set the `DEST_TLS_VERIFY` or `SRC_TLS_VERIFY` parameter to `false`. Alternatively, use an external image repository that has a valid SSL certificate. The issue does not apply to the `skopeo-copy` `ClusterTask`.

> * The new `s2i-*` tasks, which are available from the `openshift-pipelines` namespace by using the cluster resolver, fail if you clone a Git tepository to a subdirectory of the `source` workspace and then set the `CONTEXT` parameter of the task.As a workaround, when you use these tasks, do not set the `CONTEXT` parameter. The issue does not apply to the `s2i-*` `ClusterTasks`.

Reviewer: @ppitonak do you see this as workaround i mean not setting the CONTEXT param or something else will be more meaningful

> * The new `s2i-pass:[*]` tasks, which are available from the `openshift-pipelines` namespace by using the cluster resolver, fail if you clone a Git tepository to a subdirectory of the `source` workspace and then set the `CONTEXT` parameter of the task.As a workaround, when you use these tasks, do not set the `CONTEXT` parameter. The issue does not apply to the `s2i-pass:[*]` `ClusterTasks`.

Reviewer 7: missing space before `As a workaround`

* The new `git-clone` task, which is available from the `openshift-pipelines` namespace by using the cluster resolver, does not set the `COMMIT` result value. The issue does not apply to the `git-clone` `ClusterTask`.

* The `jib-maven` `ClusterTask` does not work if you are using {OCP} version 4.16.

> * When using {pac}, if you set the `concurrency_limit` spec in the `Repository` CR named `pipelines-as-code` in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, which provides default settings for all `Repository` CRs, the {pac} watcher crashes. AS a workaround, do not set this spec in this CR. Instead, set the `concurrency_limit` spec in the other `Repository` CRs that you create.

Reviewer 7: AS a workaround - lower case

> * When using {pac}, after you change the value of the `settings.pipelinerun_provenance` spec in the `Repository` CR and then change a pull request in the repository, the {pac} controller crashes. As a workaround, do not set the `settings.pipelinerun_provenance` spec in the `Repository` CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When using {pac}, if you set the `settings.pipelinerun_provenance` spec in the `Repository` CR named `pipelines-as-code` in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace, which provides default settings for all `Repository` CRs, the {pac} controller crashes. AS a workaround, do not set this spec in this CR. Instead, set the `settings.pipelinerun_provenance` spec in the other `Repository` CRs that you create.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get tektoninstallersets
----
+
The names for versioned `ClusterTask` `installerset` resources are `addon-versioned-clustertasks-<version>-<unique_id>` , for example, `addon-versioned-clustertasks-1.12-fblb8`.
+
Enter the following command to remove an installerset:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete tektoninstallerset <installerset-name>
----

* Before this update, if a task run or pipeline run referenced a service account and this service account referenced a secret that did not exist, the task run or pipeline run failed. With this update, the task run or pipeline run logs a warning and continues.

* Before this update, when you referenced a `StepAction` CR inside a step of a task, {pipelines-shortname} passed all parameters of the step to the `StepAction` CR. With this update, {pipelines-shortname} passes only the parameters defined in the `StepAction` CR to the step action.

* Before this update, if you defined a parameter of a task within a pipeline twice, {pipelines-shortname} logged the wrong path to the definition in the error message. With this update, the error message contains the correct path.

> * Before this update, if you specified a task under the `finally:` clause of a pipeline, used an expression in the `when:` clause of this task, and referenced the status of another task in this expression (for example, `'$(tasks.a-task. status)' == 'Succeeded'`), this expression was not evaluated correctly. With this update, the expression is evaluated correctly.

Reviewer 7: `'$(tasks.a-task. status)'` ... extra space before status
